---
layout: post
title: Trunk Notes
tags: review
---

<p class="meta">{{ page.date | date_to_string }} - Chicago</p>

<p>I've been meaning to try transitioning to a wiki for organizing my notes for many years now, after hearing so many recommendations for using them. I even got as far as setting up MediaWiki on my server, but the biggest challenge I faced was that it took too long to navigate to my wiki, log in, create a new page, add content, and then optionally link it with the rest of my wiki. It seemed so much easier to just email myself the note, since I always already have my email client open, and it's simple to edit one text box and hit send. Email has a low pain threshold, which is why it has managed to remain so popular, even in the face of so many newer, more advanced technologies. But even if I got used to leaving my wiki open all the time too, making it as accessible as my email on my computer, I hit another barrier when I realized that I spend most of my time and write most of my notes on my iPhone. However, editing a full fledged wiki site from the iPhone is definitely unpleasant, to put it gently. As a result, I avoided wikis for another few years and ignored peoples' constant urges that I should try them.</p>
<p>Recently, Trunk Notes for iOS garnered a lot of publicity on the usual tech blogs. I decided to try it, and after just one day of use, I have to say, I am loving it. Not only does the wiki structure lead to much more organized notes, but there is no additional pain threshold. Up until now, I had continued to use iOS's built-in Notes app, despite much more powerful note taking apps like Evernote. My only problem with Evernote is that it is slow. I still use it for organizing receipts and business cards, mostly due to its amazing OCR-based search, but I never used it for text notes. Usually, I want to quickly jot down a note, and the Notes app was always the fastest. Amazingly, Trunk Notes is actually faster than Notes!</p>
<p>Great speed, Markdown syntax, full wiki power, Dropbox syncing. What's not to love? Do yourself a favor, and if you haven't already, download Trunk Notes! It's just $4 for a universal app. I haven't had a chance to install it on my iPad yet, but it works great on my iPhone.</p>