---
layout: post
title: Ignoring Calls Elegantly
tags: ideas
location: Chicago
---

I read [a post last
month](http://minimalmac.com/post/3165411533/airplane-mode) about
phone etiquette in social events that encouraged people to switch to
airplane mode so that calls would be sent straight to voicemail while
you could keep using the social features of the phone for the
conversation. While this strategy makes sense for showing pictures
from my local photo library or taking notes, there is little else my
phone can do without a data connection. Often times I use my phone to
look up a fact to settle a debate between friends or grab a file from
Dropbox.

So how can we still encourage good phone etiquette without using airplane mode?

I was out for dinner last night, and my friend's phone was on the
table. Half way through the night, it started ringing, and his first
instinct was to flip it over to make it stop. Obviously, it kept
ringing so he had to flip it back, forward the call, and then put the
phone back on the table face down.

Why couldn't the phone just forward the call automatically as soon he
flipped it over? That's a fairly universal gesture to signify that you
wish to ignore your phone. This simple interaction design would make
it far more acceptable to leave your phone on the table during a
meeting or social gathering, and quickly ignore calls that don't need
your attention.

I'd love to see iOS 5 implement this functionality, since all of the
hardware needed (accelerometer and proximity sensor) is already
built-in to all of their devices.

**Update on 7/8/12:** I recently learned that certain older Android phones already had this feature. I wonder why it never caught on.